As far back as humanity's time
on Old Earth,
those whose actions seek to destroy
the social order
have always warranted a swift response.
The rebel plot to attack the Landsraad
was a grave threat to us all.
If it were not for the actions of one
good and loyal subject,
today's ceremony would've been a funeral.
Now, more than ever,
we need to defend our values
with ferocity and pride.
That is why I have assembled
a new, elite regiment.
And I charge you, Desmond Hart,
as my new Bashar.
To lead these soldiers of the Imperium,
and eradicate treason
and serve my house with honor,
and loyalty.
I've performed my duty.
If my father gave you orders to watch me,
then you'd better keep up.
My family's lives were just threatened.
I need you to deal with that.
I'll take care of the insurgents,
Your Majesty.
May I suggest you leave the fleet
in orbit over Salusa a bit longer?
And delay stabilizing trade?
Show of strength.
A reminder of where power really lies.
You were born to wear that uniform.
I was born to serve, Your Grace.
Francesca.
It's been a long time, Javicco.
Sister Francesca, what a surprise.
Did no one inform you
this was a private affair?
Your Grace,
I'm not here on Sisterhood business.
Constantine sent me a message.
I'm here to see my son.
Do you know who I am?
Let me through.
Your orders are to guard my sister,
not prevent me from seeing her.
- Stop!
- You think it's them preventing you?
Oh, come on, Nez.
Is this really necessary?
Fine.
- I am--
- Sorry? Is that what you came to say?
- If that's all.
- Look, I am sorry, Nez.
And, no, that, that's not all.
I feel terrible for leaving you
at the Landsraad.
Father thought I was coming
to support him.
And he was...
proud.
You should've told me what happened.
I won't let you down like that again.
Heat is just energy.
With discipline,
we can redistribute
that energy without harm.
A focused mind is your greatest protector.
And what protection do we have
when nightmares invade our minds?
The highest master in the material world
is the human mind.
Spare me the mysticism.
The entire school is sharing a nightmare.
And all we get is silence.
Whose eyes watch from the darkness?
You are out of line, acolyte.
You want us to discern truth?
How is that possible
when none of it exists here?
We're dealing with a grave situation.
Not only here on Wallach IX,
but on the Imperial planet.
That is the truth.
Find your resolve.
Remember your duty, or leave.
Those are the options.
The choice is yours.
You, out now.
- Am I being expelled?
- No, Sister Jen. Follow me.
Is your sleep still uninterrupted?
Do you mean have I had the dream? No.
I don't know why.
It may mean you're resistant to it.
Which would make you
the perfect person to help me.
Whatever you need.
What I need is your discretion.
I've taken a great risk
doing what I'm about to show you.
And you're gonna have an opinion about it.
- I don't understand.
- I had to try.
Lila?
Help me.
Follow my voice. Follow my voice.
Take her legs.
Secure her limbs.
What's happening to her?
It's not her.
It's one of her foremothers.
Remember what we talked about, Lila.
What did you do to her?
I found a way for her to survive.
- Let go of me!
- This is survival?
Lila is not lost to us.
She just doesn't know what she's doing.
We need to guide her back to herself.
Lila! Lila, if you can hear me,
follow my voice.
I have missed you so much.
It's okay.
In time, the ancestors will settle
and she will learn to manage them.
Now, I need you to stay here with her
because you are her friend.
I have other matters I have to attend to.
If you must,
this is a mild sedative
but only as a last resort.
Sister Jen, I heard you.
I'm here, Doe Eyes. I'm here.
Mother?
It's so good to see you, son.
How is the other side of the universe?
I wasn't expecting you.
I came as soon as I got your message.
My message?
I didn't send a crystal.
I thought you were here because of Kasha.
Kasha?
She's...
Don't you know?
Kasha died.
Mother Superior came to Zimia
and delivered the news herself.
Come in.
Lord Bashar?
Well, well, well.
You are audacious.
I've come to offer a formal apology.
My motion to open an inquiry against
House Corrino
was inexcusable.
Your apology is due
to the Emperor, not me.
Do you have his ear?
Shut the door.
What you did at the High Council
borders on treason.
I swear, it was poor judgment.
Nothing more.
I made the error of listening
to my aunt's suggestion.
I was misguided. That happens often
when dealing with her.
Your aunt made you do it?
That woman does nothing
but bring shame to our house.
Come sit.
Why should I absolve you?
Because we are not our bloodlines.
My great uncle saw through her.
Why couldn't I before he--
I want to know what the ties are
between the Sisterhood
and the rebellion.
I don't know.
I don't know who my aunt's in league with.
I wouldn't describe us as close.
Do you believe that they are meddling
in the spice trade
to weaken the Emperor?
Well?
Give me evidence
and the Imperial House will reward you.
- I do have something.
- You do?
For a time, pirates were hijacking
every other shipment of my whale fur.
No one knew who they were,
where to find them.
Just dead ends.
So,
I stopped looking for pirates
and I started looking
for contraband instead.
Do you know what I found?
In Zimia, it all goes through
one underground market,
run by a gang of Arrakian smugglers.
Whale fur, weapons, spice.
Which means?
I don't know. This is your story.
- What does it mean?
- The rebels!
They must've gone through
the underground market.
They must've gone
through the underground market.
To sell the spice, to raise the solari,
to buy the thinking machine.
I'd wager, if you visit
some of these smugglers and
win them over with your renowned charms,
they'll tell you exactly who
the insurgents are and where to find them.
And who they're in league with.
It's a start, but to clear your name,
I'll need proof
that your aunt is involved.
Why didn't you tell me the truth?
The Spacing Guild have been known
to monitor dispatches.
I couldn't risk your mission with them
and I couldn't risk
the Emperor finding out
that I'd summoned you.
The situation is too precarious.
Francesca, what happened to Kasha
was just the beginning.
We have been sidelined.
The Emperor refuses a Truthsayer.
And his new Bashar is leading him
on a despotic path.
This is the reckoning Raquella spoke of?
Yes.
But he may be only the tip of the spear.
What does Tula have to say?
Tula stands by my side,
as she has always done it.
If she was here, she would tell you,
we must act.
I'm going to eliminate Desmond Hart.
That's already in progress.
What I need you to do when that happens
is to guide Corrino back to us
and convince him to allow Ynez
to study on Wallach IX.
And Constantine?
- He was just a ruse?
- The Emperor has yet
to appoint a commander of his new fleet.
I think it would be wise
if the son of a Sister
was in charge of that most vital asset.
The odds of my success are low
if the new Bashar is in my way.
He won't be in your way.
I'm gonna keep him occupied.
Swordmaster?
We're looking for insurgents.
You want to come?
I didn't realize you had a dance lesson.
My Lord.
Maybe next time.
Ready to get put on your ass, Atreides?
- En guard.
- You're late again.
Yeah, well, my mother--
Stop making excuses for yourself,
Constantine.
You want your father's respect?
Start there.
Take some responsibility.
This training could save your life.
But I will not teach you
if you don't take it seriously.
That's it.
That's your lesson for today.
Mikaela! You have to get off planet.
The Emperor's new police dogs
are out in force.
Alright, let's get your heart rate
to where it should be.
They're all over the port,
Mikaela, roustin' smugglers.
It's only a matter of time
before he tears someone in half
and leads them here.
- You have to go, now.
- Okay.
And what about you?
- My cover's not blown.
I've spent years gettin' to that position.
It'd be foolish of me to burn it now.
And this would have nothing
to do with the Princess?
I've been doing this
a lot longer than you have.
And I'll give you some advice.
Do not ever make the mistake of thinking
you can become the man
you are pretending to be.
Even if that man's better than me?
Especially then.
Come on.
Horace would want you to be safe.
If you think Horace would want me to run,
you obviously didn't know him that well.
Chain detonators.
How did you get those?
I have my own sources, Atreides.
Let Desmond Hart come.
I'm preparing quite a worthy greeting.
From Mother Superior.
I said goodbye to you.
We all did.
They told us it was the only way.
I should've done more.
It's not your fault.
You tried to warn me.
You were right.
The Sisterhood is in trouble.
I don't know where to begin.
The nightmares came
and everyone all saw the same thing.
The gaping maw of Shai-Hulud,
swallowed by darkness
until two eyes stared back.
Wait.
You had the nightmare, too?
It wasn't a nightmare.
It was prescience.
I foresaw the reckoning
that would drive the Imperium to tyranny.
If he succeeds,
humanity will backslide
into self-destruction.
You saw all of that during the Agony?
On my deathbed.
Where is Valya?
You're not Lila.
Lila.
You should be resting.
I thought I told you
to keep her downstairs.
Sister Tula,
this station is an absolute mess.
You clearly resorted to unorthodox methods
to access my knowledge and now I'm here.
Let's get to work.
Mother Raquella?
Staring will only squander
this opportunity.
I don't know how long I have in control.
Sister?
I need you to track the data.
Look for patterns.
Samples of Sister Kasha's brain stem?
Correct.
The Mother School is still standing.
That gives me some relief.
Valya has increased our numbers
and our influence.
And she has protected the beating heart
of the Sisterhood.
Well, then she's been faithful
to her mission.
It wasn't wrong for me to task her,
even if it risks splitting the Sisterhood
down the middle.
I feared my Great Work would be lost.
- What Great Work?
- Not the time for questions, Sister Jen.
My granddaughter, Dorotea,
did she and Valya
ever resolve their differences?
I see.
Your sister's will never wanes.
There's tissue damage.
I've seen this before.
- You have?
- During the war.
Sister?
Get me a new sample.
You're back.
Did the lead I gave you help?
Hart was grateful.
If he gets what he needs
from these smugglers,
I'm hopeful the acrimony between us
will be forgotten.
It won't.
But we can use his distrust
to your advantage.
He did have a lot to say about you
and your Sisterhood.
Asked if I knew what you were up to.
What are you up to?
What we're always up to, Harrow.
Serving the Imperium.
Your eagerness to help the Bashar
will get House Harkonnen
back into the Emperor's good graces.
You've wanted this your entire life.
And here I am, gifting it to you.
If I only had a Truthsayer
to tell me if you're sincere or not.
Well, you'll just have to trust me.
I must go.
My ship departs in a few hours.
You sure you don't want to
come with me to lay
dear Uncle Evgeny
to rest among our ancestors?
I already said my goodbyes.
I'm sure every word brought him peace.
I'll send your regards to Lankiveil.
Consider this your home while I'm gone.
I don't understand.
The decision to lead
Desmond Hart to the rebels.
How does Sister Francesca factor in?
One day, you and the others
will learn the art of imprinting.
Making an impression so strong,
it alters the course of someone's life.
It is an emotional and physical bond
that never breaks.
What do you want, Francesca?
I want you to stop managing our son
and start supporting him.
Test him with some real responsibility.
Well, that boy would rather
gallivant his way
through all the private bedchambers
of the Great Houses than lead.
He shows no desire, no initiative.
You had a similar reputation
in your youth,
which I believe was also very frustrating
to your father.
Don't leave yourself out of the story.
I had my support from you.
Give our son his opportunity, Javicco.
It will draw out the best in him.
Make him prove himself.
And he'll become a man
as capable and formidable as you are now.
I didn't come here to drive a wedge
between you and your wife, Javicco.
During the Omnius Plague,
the machines designed a pathogen
that incubated in the human body,
releasing an enzyme
that infected the liver.
This enzyme has similar properties,
but it has concentrated itself
in Kasha's amygdala.
The fear center.
We believe that's where the damage began.
I said I was not to be disturbed
unless it's an emergency.
- What's going on in there?
- It's not safe for you.
- Who's in there with you?
- That is not your concern.
My concern?
Do you even know
what's happening in this school?
Students are demanding to be sent home.
They are fleeing in fear.
Wait until they tell their families that
the acting proctor was completely absent.
Sister Avila, you forget your place.
From Mother Superior Valya.
Tula, this is a virus.
The nightmares, the deaths,
they're connected
to a genetically modified
airborne RNA retrovirus.
Sister Avila.
What kind of abomination is this?
I found a way to save her.
Sister Lila is still in recovery.
And does Valya know about this?
I am doing as I was tasked to do,
to protect the Sisterhood at all costs.
- Is that not your aim?
- Of course, it is, but I--
Good! Then we are in agreement.
You may go now.
Don't mention a word of this to anyone, understood?
The new Bashar. Welcome.
How 'bout a little taste? On the house?
I hope you haven't been relying on any
illegal shipments of spice, have you?
Because...
as it happens...
I just spoke to a smuggler.
Unfortunately, for him,
most of what he said was screaming.
But he told me something very interesting.
He said this place is a hotbed
for insurgent activity.
And he said that the spice
he's been smuggling in
has been paying for the party.
That make any sense to you?
No, it doesn't.
Okay.
Do you know what strikes me as odd?
Is the fact that you are here.
A Fremen, profiting,
off the rape of your own planet,
communing with your oppressors.
I found a different way to survive.
Or a different way to kill.
What I really want to know
is how the Sisterhood is connected
to the rebellion.
You give me something I can use,
I shall spare your life.
God created Arrakis to train the faithful.
I live here.
Let's go see what's upstairs, shall we?
Keep an eye on her.
Stay behind me. Let's go.
Go!
I've seen a knife like that before.
Sister.
You lied to us.
Everyone has secrets, Atreides.
The Sisterhood stands
with what's best for the Imperium
just like you.
And where do your people on Arrakis
fit into those grand plans?
Are you willing to let them burn?
Don't let me see you again.
She's asleep. Good.
If Raquella returns, let me know.
Is Lila just being used
for the Sisterhood's gain?
We're in a time of crisis, Sister Jen.
- Sacrifices have to be made.
- And what have you sacrificed?
More than you can ever imagine.
I've been looking for you.
All my life, I've had to learn
about the great Corrinos:
Roderick, Jules.
And the Butlers before them.
But I don't know anything
about your family.
Your Sisterhood does everything
with a purpose, right?
A grand plan.
That's always our intention.
Yes.
What was your purpose in having me?
- Constantine!
- What was your purpose in having me?
You left me to be raised by a father
who can't stand me and never will.
What's the purpose in that?
Sorry, I don't have a glass for you.
You have to see your father
for the man he really is.
A man who can never be pleased.
A man who's driven by fear.
You, on the other hand,
have never cared
what anyone thinks of you.
- And all to what end?
- There will be opportunities.
When they come,
reach for them with confidence.
Yeah, I'll reach for them.
You want the truth?
Your purpose, Constantine.
The reason you were brought
into this world
is to protect your sister,
the future leader of the Imperium,
from anyone who seeks to do her harm.
Including the ones who claim to love her.
What do you mean
Desmond Hart survived?
How is that possible?
I don't know how,
but he wasn't among the dead.
So be it.
There's a contingency plan for him.
I've just had to destroy
everything that I've built.
This is years of investment.
- What, and you're just--
- Your investment wasn't wasted.
We needed to occupy our enemies,
so that Francesca could maneuver.
Let's hope she took good advantage.
You can hold your head up high, Mikaela.
It's not my performance that
I'm doubting, Mother Superior.
Careful how you finish that sentence.
This will get you to our safe house
on Arrakis.
I won't betray my people
the same way I did Horace and the others.
The Sisterhood is your people.
I see you're molding
this one in your image.
Let's see how long you remain this naive, acolyte.
There he is.
Constantine. Didn't see you there.
Listen, about earlier,
I never meant to--
I'm actually here to thank you,
for your concern.
And for all you've done for me.
For all you've tried to teach me.
It's okay. It's my duty.
You've gone beyond your duty.
You have reminded me of my purpose.
Well, glad you appreciate it.
I much more than appreciate it, friend.
I love you for it.
No one needs a reason to dine
with good friends,
but tonight is truly a special occasion.
Would you stand, Constantine?
It is with great pride
that I share with you all some news.
Because of my son's
quick and decisive action,
we have apprehended
a traitor in our house.
Our Swordmaster,
who I thought served us well.
But he will be made an example of.
House Corrino will tolerate no treachery.
Constantine knows that,
and for that, I thank him.
Shall we?
In recognition of the man you've become,
I bestow upon you a great honor.
I have chosen you, my son,
to command my fleet,
to deploy to Arrakis,
and to ensure House Corrino
brings stability to the planet
and spice to the Imperium.
And I know your mother
is as proud of you as I am.
Congratulations.
- Good work, my boy.
- Thank you.
Tell me the truth.
Was everything a lie?
I care about you.
You tried to kill my family.
I couldn't go through with it.
I chose you over my principles.
But I am willing to die for them anyway.
Do you really believe
you can bring about a better Imperium?
I do.
You okay?
I felt her, Mother Raquella
moving through me.
Yeah.
We saw.
Did we get what we needed?
Seems like we did, Doe Eyes.
Where's Mother Tula?
She's just checking a message
from Mother Superior Valya.
She'll be back. Don't worry.
I'm just glad I didn't let everyone down.
How could you let everyone down?
You're the bravest among us.
You've done your part.
Get some rest.
Sister, along with this message,
I've enclosed a genetic
sample of this man,
Desmond Hart.
Run it as soon as possible.
He has a power I cannot account for.
To understand it,
we must identify his bloodlines.
Processing DNA sample.
Accessing genetic library.
I should've died tonight.
"Each man must face his own conscience
and his own testing."
"Shai-Hulud makes the final choice."
You've been chosen.
I was chosen, too.
To lead a legion of worlds into
the Imperium and forge a new future.
And then the Sisterhood
wrested it all away from me.
My husband's trust,
my daughter's love,
my power.
Tell me.
What did they do to you?
Bloodline, Atreides.
Bloodline, Harkonnen.
Match identified.
The woman who gave birth to me
sent me away to live among scavengers,
who left me fighting for scraps
just to survive.
She was a Sister.
Let us rid the Imperium
of these witches forever.